Split overview/workflow.rst into multiple separate files (#1076)
SUSE/kiwi: doc/source/working_with_kiwi.rst

   directory named :file:`root` or in the compressed overlay
   :file:`root.tar.gz` to the target root tree. Files already present in
   the target root directory are overwritten. This allows you to
   overwrite any file that was installed by one of the packages during the
   installation phase.

#. **Apply Archives**

   All archives specified in the `archive` element of the
   :file:`config.xml` file are applied in the specified order (top to
   bottom) after the overlay tree copy operation is complete (see
   :ref:`xml-description-archive-element`). Files and directories are
   extracted relative to the top level of the new root tree. As with the
   overlay tree, it is possible to overwrite files already existing in the
   target root tree.

#. **Execute the user-defined script** :file:`config.sh`

   At the end of the preparation stage the script :file:`config.sh` is
   executed (if present). It is run in the top level directory of the
   target root tree. The script's primary function is to complete the
   system configuration, for example, to activate services. See
   :ref:`image-customization-config-sh` section for further details.

#. **Manage The New Root Tree**

>    .. FIXME: I don't understand the purpose of this paragraph, is this even

Author: @schaefi @davidcassany I stumbled over this paragraph and included it more or less unchanged, but I don't really get it's meaning and purpose.

Reviewer: kiwi operates in two steps. The prepare step that creates a new root tree and the create step that creates an image using that tree. With the section "Manage The New Root Tree" we wanted to point out that customers can do manual changes in the root tree after the prepare command is done. kiwi's build command basically combines the two commands prepare + create

So there is the possibility to call kiwi like this:
   
kiwi system prepare ... [plugin-customer-changes] ... kiwi system create ...

Usually customers pack the custom changes into a config.sh script and use kiwi system build

Author: I've rephrased this paragraph a bit and moved the warning into a `.. warning::` box.

I am however a little puzzled about the warning: the whole text says, yeah you can now modify the unpacked image if you want to and then the warning says: "Don't you dare do this!" (both sides exaggerated by me). Maybe we should rephrase this, so that the text doesn't carry this odd ambivalence?

          <archive name="custom-archive.tgz"/>
      </packages>

.. _working-with-kiwi-image-building-process:

Image Building Process
----------------------

> KIWI creates images in a two step process. The first step, the *prepare*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
KIWI creates images in a two step process: The first step, the *prepare*
```

> operation, generates a so-called *unpacked image* tree (directory) using

Reviewer 2: Maybe use "unpacked image tree" as a (new) term. Therefor, I would add "tree" into the italic text:

```suggestion
operation, generates a so-called *unpacked image tree* (directory) using
```

the information provided in the :file:`config.xml` configuration file
(see :ref:`xml-description`)

The second step, the *create* operation, creates the *packed image* or
*image* in the specified format based on the unpacked image and the
information provided in the :file:`config.xml` configuration file.

.. figure:: .images/intro.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Image Creation Architecture

    Image Creation Architecture

.. _prepare-step:

The Prepare Step
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The first step of the image creation is the *prepare* step, during which

Reviewer 2: I think you can simplify the sentence (as you are already talking about the prepare step):

```suggestion
As the first step, KIWI creates an *unpackaged image tree*, also called "root tree". This
```

> KIWI creates an *unpacked image*, also called the "root tree". This

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

directory will be the installation target for software packages to be
installed during the image creation process.

For the package installation, KIWI relies on the package manager specified
in the ``packagemanager`` element in :file:`config.xml` (see
:ref:`xml-description-preferences-common-elements`). KIWI supports the
following package managers: ``dnf``, ``zypper`` (default) and ``apt-get``.

The prepare step consists of the following substeps:

> #. **Create Target Root Directory.**

Reviewer 2: If it is a title, I would avoid dots at the end:

```suggestion
#. **Create Target Root Directory**
```

>    KIWI will exit with an error if the target root tree already exists to

Reviewer 2: To avoid "exist(s)" two times and to use present tense, I'd suggest:

```suggestion
   KIWI aborts with an error if the target root tree already exists to
```

   avoid accidental deletion of an existing unpacked image.

> #. **Install Packages.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. **Install Packages**
```

>    KIWI first configures the package manager to use the repositories

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   First, KIWI configures the package manager to use the repositories
```

>    specified in the configuration file and/or via the command line. After

Reviewer 2: I'm not completely sure if I understood it correctly. So you basically say, you can use either one or both methods, right? If this is the case, I would suggest:

```suggestion
   specified in the configuration file, via the command line, or both. After
```

Author: I actually don't know that. @schaefi?

Reviewer: On the command line you can use the options ```--add-repo``` which adds a repo to the existing ones. You can also use ```--set-repo``` which overwrites the first repo. A combination of the options is possible but in most cases not useful. Usually people use --set-repo if the XML description just has one repo and they want to overwrite that one.

Reviewer: Actually the proposed change of the documentation looks good to me. For details on the command line the man page explains for the system build command explains it pretty precisely. So I would go with the suggestion from Tom

   the repository setup, the packages specified in the ``bootstrap``

>    section of the image description are installed in a temporary workspace

Reviewer 2: *Temporary workspace*: is this just a fancy name for (another) temporary directory?

```suggestion
   section of the image description are installed in a temporary directory
```

Author: Yes.

   external to the target root tree. This establishes the initial
   environment to support the completion of the process in a chroot

>    setting. The essential packages to specify as part of the bootstrap

Reviewer 2: The following sentence is a bit weird to me. I've reordered it a bit, hope I didn't change the meaning:

```suggestion
   setting. The essential packages are ``filesystem`` and ``glibc-locale`` to specify
```

>    environment are the ``filesystem`` and ``glibc-locale`` packages. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   as part of the bootstrap. The
```

   dependency chain of these two packages is usually sufficient to populate
   the bootstrap environment with all required software to support the

>    installation of packages into the new root tree. Note that the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   installation of packages into the new root tree. The
```

>    aforementioned two packages might not be enough for every distribution,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   aforementioned two packages might not be enough for every distribution.
```

>    consult the `kiwi-descriptions repository

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Consult the `kiwi-descriptions repository
```

>    <https://github.com/SUSE/kiwi-descriptions/>`_ for examples for various

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   <https://github.com/SUSE/kiwi-descriptions/>`_ of examples for various
```

Author: I wanted to say that one should look for examples in that repository, using "of" would change the meaning of the sentence, wouldn't it?

Reviewer 2: Yes, what about this:

```suggestion
   <https://github.com/SUSE/kiwi-descriptions/>`_ containing examples for various
```

Author: That sounds good, I've added that!

   Linux distributions.

   The installation of software packages through the selected package
   manager may install unwanted packages. Removing these packages can be
   accomplished by marking them for deletion in the image description, see
   :ref:`xml-description-adding-and-removing-packages`.

> #. **Apply the Overlay Tree.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. **Apply the Overlay Tree**
```

>    Next, KIWI will apply all files and directories present in the overlay

Reviewer 2: Present tense please:

```suggestion
   Next, KIWI applies all files and directories present in the overlay
```

   directory named :file:`root` or in the compressed overlay
   :file:`root.tar.gz` to the target root tree. Files already present in

>    the target root directory will be overwritten. This allows you to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   the target root directory are overwritten. This allows you to
```

   overwrite any file that was installed by one of the packages during the
   installation phase.

> #. **Apply Archives.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. **Apply Archives**
```

>    All archives specified in the `archive` element in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   All archives specified in the `archive` element of the
```

   :file:`config.xml` file are applied in the specified order (top to
   bottom) after the overlay tree copy operation is complete (see

>    :ref:`xml-description-archive-element`). Files and directories will be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :ref:`xml-description-archive-element`). Files and directories are
```

   extracted relative to the top level of the new root tree. As with the
   overlay tree, it is possible to overwrite files already existing in the
   target root tree.

> #. **Execute the user-defined script** :file:`config.sh`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. **Execute the user-defined script** :file:`config.sh`
```

   At the end of the preparation stage the script :file:`config.sh` is
   executed (if present). It is run in the top level directory of the
   target root tree. The script's primary function is to complete the

>    system configuration, for example to activate services. See

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   system configuration, for example, to activate services. See
```

   :ref:`image-customization-config-sh` section for further details.

> #. **Manage The New Root Tree.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. **Manage The New Root Tree**
```

   .. FIXME: I don't understand the purpose of this paragraph, is this even
      relevant?

>    The unpacked image directory is a directory, as far as the build system

Reviewer 2: For consistency reasons:

```suggestion
   The unpacked image tree is a directory. As far as the build system
```

   is concerned you can manipulate the content of this directory according
   to your needs. Since it represents a system installation you can

>    "chroot" into this directory for testing purposes. The file system

Reviewer 2: Not sure if we should resolve it like this:

```suggestion
   "change root (chroot)" into this directory for testing purposes. The file system
```

   contains an additional directory named :file:`/image` that is not
   present in a regular system. It contains information KIWI requires
   during the create step, including a copy of the :file:`config.xml` file.

>    Do not make any changes to the system, since they will get lost when

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Do not make any changes to the system, since they are lost when
```

   re-running the ``prepare`` step again. Additionally, you may introduce

>    errors that will occur during the ``create`` step which are difficult to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   errors that occur during the ``create`` step which are difficult to
```

   track. The recommended way to apply changes to the unpacked image
   directory is to change the configuration and re-run the ``prepare``
   step.

.. _create-step:

The Create Step
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

KIWI creates the final image during the *create step*: it converts the
unpacked root tree into one or multiple output files appropriate for the
respective build type.

> Note, that it is possible to create multiple images from the same unpacked

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is possible to create multiple images from the same unpacked
```

> root tree. For example, it is possible to create a self installing OEM

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
root tree, for example, a self installing OEM
```

image and a virtual machine image from the same image description. The only
prerequisite is that both image types are specified in :file:`config.xml`.

During the *create step* the following operations are performed by KIWI:

> #. **Execute the User-defined Script** :file:`images.sh`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. **Execute the User-defined Script** :file:`images.sh`
```

   At the beginning of the image creation process the script named
   :file:`images.sh` is executed (if present). It is run in the top level
   directory of the unpacked root tree. The script is usually used to
   remove files that are no needed in the final image. For example, if an
   appliance is being built for a specific hardware, unnecessary kernel
   drivers can be removed using this script.

   See :ref:`image-customization-images-sh` for further details.

> #. **Create the Requested Image Type.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. **Create the Requested Image Type**
```
